# Playpal - Educational Activity Recommender

The Playpal is a web application designed to help parents find age and interest-appropriate educational activities for their children. The application generates personalized recommendations for engaging learning experiences by leveraging advanced AI techniques.


<video src="https://github.com/pattpjy/playpal_ai/assets/111454351/bb744b3b-26aa-48d1-98fb-70adb86ca7a9" controls="controls" style="max-width: 730px;">
</video>


## Features

- **Personalized Recommendations**: Users can specify their child's age group and interests to receive tailored recommendations.
- **Scraping Engine**: The application collects educational content from various websites, extracting relevant information such as titles, descriptions, and age suitability.
- **AI-Powered Recommendations**: The application generates human-readable responses for recommended activities by combining vector similarity search and a large language model (LLM).
- **User-Friendly Interface**: The intuitive user interface allows users to navigate and explore the recommended activities easily.
- **Responsive Design**: The application is designed to work seamlessly across different devices and screen sizes.

## Technologies Used

- **React**: The application's front end is built using React, a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
- **Material-UI**: Material-UI is used for styling and components to ensure a modern and visually appealing user interface.
- **Python**: The application's backend is built in Python, which includes the scraping engine and integration with AI models.
- **Vector Similarity Search**: Advanced techniques such as vector similarity search are employed to match user preferences with relevant educational activities.
- **Large Language Model (LLM)**: A large language model processes the results of vector similarity search to generate human language responses.
- **FastAPI**: FastAPI is a modern, fast (high-performance), web framework for building APIs with Python.
- **Python**: The API is built entirely in Python, leveraging its simplicity, readability, and extensive ecosystem of libraries.
- **AI Models**: Advanced AI models, including vector similarity search and large language models, power the recommendation engine.
- **Pydantic**: Pydantic is used for data validation and serialization, ensuring robust input handling and response formatting.

## Usage

1. **Input Preferences**: Specify your child's age group and interests in the application interface.
2. **View Recommendations**: Explore the personalized recommendations generated by the application based on your preferences.
3. **Engage in Educational Activities**: Click on recommended activities to view detailed descriptions, age suitability, and links to the original content. Engage your child in fun and educational learning experiences!

## UI Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/pattpjy/playpal_ai.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd playpal_ai
   ```

3. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

4. Start the development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to view the application.

## API Installation and Setup

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/fastapi-educational-activity-recommender-api.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd server
   ```

3. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Start the FastAPI server:

   ```bash
   uvicorn main:app --reload
   ```

5. The API will be accessible at `http://localhost:8000`.

Make sure to update OPENAI_API_key from Open AI account
Data is stored in [Single Store('https://www.singlestore.com/')
The Scraping Code is in Python combined with Beautiful soup [Colab]('https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1FtHF-gYQ1_nqcwLTnO7-FXz3_WcE0X98')
